Walk them back.
Let's talk about our last topic when it comes to performance.
That is load balancing load balancing.
As the name suggests is a way for us to balance multiple requests at the same time and distributed them
to different services and that is something that we want to start to do when we have more and more users
using our app perhaps making requests to our express app as we make more and more requests are Express
up or our express server is going to get hit more and more more and more until it just cannot handle
the load.
In an ideal scenario we can just have another server perhaps two or three servers and this thing in
front of it cold a low balancer just distributes it so that the first user goes to the first server.
The second user to the second server the third user to the third server and that we were able to handle
more load.
Now in order for us to understand how load balancers work and also how we can implement it.
We first need to speak about the most basic way that a client and server relationship works.
Now on most web sites such as Wordpress sites that are hosted on host skater or blue host most simple
just blog web sites that you perhaps you bought the domain name from GoDaddy and maybe even hosting
it on GoDaddy have a server that they managed for you.
You never have to create a server.
I mean up until now we've created an express server that serves content to the client but most people
aren't web developers and they don't need to know how to build an express server themselves.
They rather just hand this off to a company that has servers for them and just give them the files so
that they take care of it.
And most of these companies like I said host gator blue host all use something called either Apache
GTP server or engine next and these are open source software that you put on a machine on a computer.
And they're especially good at serving static content static files like UML javascript and VSS.
They're very simple.
All they do is give me a request and I'll send you all the files that you need.
That's it.
And you'll see these two pieces of software all over the Internet.
But we can actually do something really interesting with these tools because these tools are really
really good and really fast just serving static files.
We can use them as load balancers an engine nexts very very popular for doing that and quite easy to
implement You see we can do something like this.
We can have our single page application.
Let's say our smart brain out and we make a request.
Now that request instead of going to our server our API server instead hits an engine X server that
will set up and this engine X server will balance the load between server 1 2 and 3 based on whichever
one is well the least busy.
So that way the more users we have as long as we have engine X that can act as what we call a reverse
proxy and passed down through a cost to one two and three server.
Then it can receive those files and serve them really really quick to the browser and you can also do
interesting things like actually cash those requests.
So the next time that a user requests the same G-mail page instead of going to several one two or three
it can just return it because it's in their cash and you'll see a lot of applications built like this.
Now looking at this diagram you're thinking to yourself.
We've just increased the complexity of our application and how is this faster.
If anything we're talking to more machines now we're making more hops and doing more work.
And you're right in thinking that because we are adding more things more work more processing that needs
to get done to actually return these files.
And if you don't have a lot of users then this is just wasted resources wasted time.
It doesn't really help you but when you start to have more and more users that a single server just
cannot handle eventually that server is going to crash won't be able to handle all those requests.
That's when you start implementing a load balancer and because engine X is a really really good way
to use.
Like I said a reverse proxy and to serve static files it actually has more users you have the faster
the load balancer becomes than just doing a single server client relationship.
Eventually you can have an architecture like this where you have a single page out the cation that has
a content delivery network where you perhaps have cache versions of your Schmall CSSA javascript file
that's all jes zipped and then perhaps you make API requests to a rest endpoint but this API requests
will hit a load balancer and will distribute your request based on whichever server is open and the
server will return again in my cache some of the request maybe a Jason response request and can also
GZA this request and return it back to the client.
So that now you're able to use all these tools you've learned to maximize performance and make this
process as fast as possible.
That's enough talk let's actually implement it in the next video.
I'm going to show you how to implement a low balancer very simply and then we're going to do something
fun.
We're actually going to low test everything and see how well it handles the load.
And then x1.